To whom it may concern,

I am writing with interest regarding the 'Software Developer' position advertised on [seek.com.au](https://www.seek.com.au/job/35235521). I am mature age student, in my third and final year of studying Bachelor of Computer Science at Edith Cowan University, majoring in Software Engineering and have two years industry experience. I spent 18 months at IBM as a full-time Software Developer Intern where I got hands on experience developing in Java. I have also recently completed a six month contract with Cash Converters, primarily working on business intelligence reporting read models and applications to improve marketing processes in C# and .NET.

I have a passion for writing code to solve problems, and my ultimate goal is to pursue a long lasting career in the software development industry. Most of my experience so far has revolved around developing backend solutions, but would love to eventually be considered a fullstack developer, comfortable with both back and frontend technologies.

During the 18 months at IBM, I was exposed to developing REST API endpoints on a Java backend, providing mainframe log analysis data and insights to an Angular frontend, which also involved visualizing the data with D3.js. I helped develop a Java component for a new IBM product, which gathered log records from different sources, processed and transformed those records and passed them on to different subscribers serialized to the required format, such as a custom binary protocol, or JSON for Logstash consumers. My knowledge of the Java component was highly regarded, and as an intern was given the responsibility to design some data transform features. I was also invited to travel to the US, to provide training while handing the project over to a new development team based in North Carolina. I proved to be self sufficient during the project handover period, working remotely with the US team for approximately two months full time.

I spent six months at Cash Converters as a contractor, broadening my skills with C# and .NET. I was exposed to a formal Agile environment, following Cash Converters best practices. I was involved in code reviews as both reviewee and reviewer, and upheld their standards with SOLID and DRY principles. I was exposed to test and behaviour driven development, working with xUnit, BDDfy and NSubstitute testing and mock frameworks. I worked on improving test times for Business Intelligence solutions in AppVeyor, by modifying yaml and powershell scripts to avoid redundant rebuild steps. I was also responsible for improving Business Intelligence deployment resiliency on an on-premise Octopus Deploy instance, by ensuring that tool dependencies were included in the package, enabling continuous delivery of the service, even if access to the internet was not available.

My highlight at Cash Converters was my involvement in the development of an event source replicator, which transferred an SQL event source to flat files in binary MessagePack format. The goal of this story was to improve Business Intelligence read model population, replacing event source reads from a remote SQL server, to reading from flat files stored directly with the read model populators on NVMe drives. This greatly reduced full read model rebuild times. While the primary consumer of these flat files were Business Intelligence read model services, I created packages to enable internal developers to utilize and listen to events stored in the flat file binary format for other projects. I received praise from my peers and was told that with the help of my packages, they could quickly prototype new solutions, from zero code to a fully populated read model within a couple of hours.

Although the projects I have been involved with did not give me the opportunity to be directly involved with database design, I have scored well (96 HD) in the Systems and Database Design unit at ECU, and have a solid grasp of the fundamentals of relational database design, normalization and implementation.

While I have yet to complete my degree, I believe that my demonstrated initiative, passion for software development and willingness to learn and share knowledge makes me a worthy candidate for the position, and plan to complete my degree by studying part time if successful in securing the role.

I am excited to hear about this opportunity at Bankwest and would love to meet you to find out more. I appreciate your time and I'm looking forward to hearing from you soon.

Regards,

Martin Ponce  
0416 357 709  
martin.ponce@outlook.com